ques =what is framework?
ans =framework are foundation over which we build something 
for eample wix le lo . pehle hi ushme sabkush hai tumko thoda s aapna kuch add karn ahai aur site ready

ques =what is library?
ans =libarary is somrthing which consists of certian functions i.e method so that to do a specific task u ndo not need to re-invent the 
wheel again... function are already defined just use it.. 
examplde(Math.pow(a,b));


ques== what is react?
ans= ReactJs is a javascript library for building user interfaces

the purpose of react is to create beautiful UI 
React is a JavaScript library for building user interfaces.

React is used to build single-page applications.

React allows us to create reusable UI components
React, sometimes referred to as a frontend JavaScript framework, is a JavaScript library created by Facebook.

React is a tool for building UI components.

How does React Work?
React creates a VIRTUAL DOM in memory.

Instead of manipulating the browser's DOM directly, React creates a virtual DOM in memory, where it does all the necessary manipulating, before making the changes in the browser DOM.

React only changes what needs to be changed!

React finds out what changes have been made, and changes only what needs to be changed.

You will learn the various aspects of how React does this in the rest of this tutorial.

o use React in production, you need npm which is included with Node.js.

To get an overview of what React is, you can write React code directly in HTML.

But in order to use React in production, you need npm and Node.js installed.




// Data Base


// what is react js
// why we need raectjs
//
cretae rect applivation
babel
ract js i slibrary usex to generate Ui components
Where as as Angular  and view js is framwworks
advantage of react -- based on componenets
ease process to create web faster
with js we need to select query selector
// but when we use react it automatically upates itself no need to call js every time
react offer us re usable code
applies  principle of dry


identiofy the componenets
and how can u use react in this
React is a component based writing

// creating  a new project

npm and npx

npm node package manager
npm open source -> node react etc, bugs help 
npm are packages just like imprt java.util.*;
it has many methods alreday defined
whwnevr u r trying ti include apackage see users and current one

webpack and babel

when u create a create project it loads the npm module which have all the 
pre-defined functionalities in  it 
for every cpmponents we need to have seprate file i.e seprate modile
// always add components insise the src folder itself
ways to export 
1=> write export at declaration
2=> use export default App          use import App frm './file path'
components are  self closing tag

when u create a react app 
it will create every necessary file and u have to code where
the space is provided 
all components need to be in upper changesneed to have import React from "react" 

index.js =. from wher code is transferd  to HTML
App.js is paren to all componenets
componenets are package code .. tht ie it can be resued multiple times
class ko className se Change karna hoga
go to the folder and type npm install and the node module will be installed


code to create react app
step 1= go to cmd 
step 2= go to the folder wher to create the app
step 3= type npx create-react-app appname    // here app name can be anything
step4 = once done all the files necesaary wil be created



when u clone a repository of an react application u donot have access
to the node module as node modules are of large size 
u need to install node module on ut own for that cloned project
just type npm install an the node module will be installed;


import bla from blapath
export default bla 

import React from 'react" har ek component k file par likhna hota hai


with the use of state only we can render-change or update componenets.
int html we used to selecet using queryselector and all in this we just need to change the statestate is function ecxported from 
react
exx
inr react file it will have something like this 
export default React;
export{useState} or export useState  // pls note that there can be only one default export for any particular componenets


Recat Hooks
react hooks were made so that we can use state int functional component also apart from class component
it doesnot work inside classes 
can be used only in functional components
